# Islandora Batch Load Children

Islandora batch module for ingesting objects that are children of other objects. The original use case for this module was to load fold-out "pages" in a digitized scrapbook. The scrapbook itself was ingested using the book content model, and the fold-outs were then ingested using this module as children of the book pages they were attached to.

## Usage

This module only provides a Drush script. There is no graphical user interface.

To load child objects, prepare their content as described in the next section, and then run the `islandora_batch_load_children_preprocess` Drush command, specifying a user with sufficient priviledges to create Islandora objects, and specifying an input file:

`drush --user=admin islandora_batch_load_children_preprocess  --input_file=/tmp/test.txt`

Run `drush --user=admin islandora_batch_load_children_preprocess  --help` for information on other options.

As with other Islandora 7 batch ingest modules, you need to then perform the ingest:

`drush --user=admin islandora_batch_ingest`


## Preparing the child files

This module uses a comma-delimited input file to associate parent objects with children. Child object files (TIFFs, PDFs, video files, etc.) for each parent listed in the input file need to be located in a directory and named so that the sequence of the children can be determined by sorting the filenames. For example, given an input file like this:

```
islandora:100,/tmp/100
islandora:300,/tmp/300
```

Files in `/tmp/100` will be ingested so they are children of the parent with PID `islandora:100`. If the files are named

```
foo_01.tif
foo_02.tif
```

`foo_01.tif` will be the first child and `foo_02.tif` will be the second child.

The sequence number each object is assigned in relation to its parent is determined by how its filename sorts compared to its sibling files using PHP's [natsort](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.natsort.php) function.

## Cleaning up

After you ingest our child objects, you should delete the stale data generated by this module. To do so, run this Drush command:

`drush vdel islandora_batch_load_children_child_sequences`

## Metadata

A minimal MODS XML document is generated for each child object, containing a title and a local identifier derived from the child object's filename.

By default, child objects inherit their parent's title, with 'part X' appended. For example, if children are added to a parent whose title it 'Sample object', the children will get the titles 'Sample object, part 1', Sample object, part 2', etc. You can override 'part' with the `child_title_label` Drush option:

`drush --user=admin islandora_batch_load_children_preprocess  --input_file=/tmp/test.txt --child_title_label=segment`

will result in children with titles 'Sample object, segment 1', 'Sample object, segment 2', etc.


## Requirements

* [Islandora](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora)
* [Islandora Batch](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_batch)

## Maintainer

* [Mark Jordan](https://github.com/mjordan)

## Support, feedback, and development

Feel free to open issues in this Github repo. Use cases and suggestions are welcome, as are pull requests (but before you open a pull request, please open an issue).

## License

 [GPLv3](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt)
